# Express With React UI

## Summary

**Express With React UI** is a starting point to build a full-stack Node/JavaScript application in which an express server renders a user interface generated by a **create-react-app** project. It is heavily influenced by [a similar project](https://github.com/mars/heroku-cra-node) created by Mars Hill.

## Installation

- Install the dependencies for express ---> `npm install`
- Rename **.env-example** to **.env** ---> `mv .env-example .env`
- Initiate a react project ---> `npx create-react-app react-ui --use-npm`
- Change your location to **react-ui** ---> `cd react-ui`
- Delete react's **.gitignore** ---> `rm .gitignore` (see **Notes** below)
- Delete react's **README.md** ---> `rm README.md`

## Up and running

- Inside **react-ui/**, Create react's **build/** directory ---> `npm run build`
- Change your location to the root directory ---> `cd ..`
- Start the server in development mode ---> `npm run dev`
- In a browser, navigate to **localhost:8080**

## 127.0.0.1:8080

This port is handled by express. This address in a browser most accurately reflects the final state of the application. Because it renders the interface with static code found in **react-ui/build/**, any changes you make to the interface will not be reflected here until you run `npm run build` inside of **react-ui/**.

## 127.0.0.1:3000

This port is handled by react. This is the address you should use in a browswer when building the interface locally.

## Heroku

This application can easily be deployed to Heroku. Details forthcoming.

## Notes

When you remove **react-ui/.gitignore**, it might confuse git's tracking to the point where you'll see 5k+ changes that it will attempt to manage. To get around this, simply close and restart Visual Studio Code.
